# California_Rent_Analysis

## Project Overview
This project is an exercise in taking a dataset and using it to gauge what factors are able to provide insight into factors likely influencing the California rental market and what we can learn from the data.
Historically, rental prices have been particularly high in the San Francisco Bay and its surrounding areas, in both an absolute sense and relative to the size and features of the apartment (Badger, 2016; Boeing et al., 2020). These trends have been persistent; a newspaper article from December 2022 examined the lack of affordable housing nationally and in select cities including San Francisco (Williams, 2022). 

Elevated prices present challenges for those seeking housing in the region, as low-income and even middle-income individuals and families struggle with costs. Competition for desirable apartments leads to further scarcity of viable options (Badger, 2016; Boeing et al., 2020). While home ownership—in contrast to renting—is viewed as an ideal to aspire to in the U.S., the share of households living in rentals has remained close to one-third of all households (Boeing & Waddell, 2017). The percentage of rentals in relation to all living arrangements is forecast to rise through 2050, reflecting several factors including a desire for mobility, insufficient income or qualification to gain a mortgage, and concerns that home ownership will not yield investment gains commensurate with the purchase price (Nelson, 2016). Even if these prognostications overstate the role of renting in the future, rental housing arrangements can be expected to serve a large portion of the U.S. population in the future.
